Welcome to the Life Church Podcast.
We are an axe to fortitude community, a family on a mission to bring a life of Jesus to warranty.
We hope you are ready to hear what God has to say to you today through his word and by his spirit.
We have the last in our Roman Road series and it wasn't something I felt I could truncate and abbreviate and shorten or make any more concise than a regular sort of length
sermon.
So it will be a kind of a full length word this morning, but it's based on Romans 10, 13 that says, everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved.
Let's say that again.
Everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved.
Sounds simple, doesn't it?
Straight forward.
Nothing too technical or difficult in that.
Paul instructs the church in Rome and explains to them that if you are going to confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, then God considers you saved.
However, it is the experience of many to feel anxious over whether that is simply enough.
We tend to think rather than a full stop at the end of that sentence, there may be a comma or some ellipsis.
Ellipsis are those three dots that suggest this is petering out, but something else is about to be said.
As if we may have to do something more than just simply believe on the Lord Jesus and confess with our mouth and be safe.
We feel that maybe there is some works involved as well, or specific behavioral requirements involved.
We kind of treat the church maybe like a family that has some sort of conditions to it.
But you know what with my family, there are times when my kids, would you believe they don't behave?
I don't know where they see that misbehavior model anywhere else around them.
won't be from me, so I'll blame my wife.
But you know what?
I don't sit down with my kids and say, you were naughty yesterday to buy us, therefore you were no longer part of this family.
How harsh would that be?
And yet some of us have this concept of God whereby our inclusion in God's family is precarious.
Like we're not sure someday if we are in
Or we are out.
Have we just done something too much on God's naughty list that we might find ourselves struck off?
But salvation, according to the doctrines of Christianity, is a salvation being saved not by your works, but by God's grace.
It's God's gift from him to you, not based on your performance, but based on the performance of Jesus.
There's a story that goes, and I put this in my notes for all of the other preachers in the congregation.
So I'll be interested to know whether they share this story about a man who walks into a hairdresser.
And he goes in one day and he sits down a young lady.
She puts that little, what is it?
It's called a napkin.
What's that thing there?
It's been so long since I've been in a hairdresser.
So I can't remember.
What's the cape?
There we go.
Ask the hairdresser.
So she puts the cape around the mansion.
It's what can I do for you?
She says, well, I want it just a short back and sides.
And she says, all right.
Well, also, if you don't mind me saying, sir, she goes, your beard's looking a little bit long.
She goes, would you like it trimming?
He says, well, actually, I've been thinking about a change.
Why don't you shave off my beard while you're doing it?
So she goes very good.
So they'll do that.
So the man, he's there having his haircut.
The young lady, she's chatting away to him, niggas up the top, the sides of the back.
And while she's there, she trims his beard and then shaves it smooth.
Man pays the money, says goodbye, goes home.
Next morning, he wakes up.
He looks in the mirror and thinks, oh, my gosh.
says, I'm still really smooth.
That's an amazing shave.
One does what happened.
Maybe it's something they put in the cream in the barbers or whatever else they did.
Get someone this day.
Next morning wakes up, looks in the mirror again.
Mirror again.
What's going on?
I'm still smoothly shaved.
It happens five more mornings and he's starting to get worried now because he's still just as shaved as he was when he first went in.
So he goes back to the hairdressers and he says to the owner of the hairdressers, he said, I've got a question for you.
The owner of the hairdresser says, yeah, okay, ask me your question.
He said, I came in nearly a week ago.
I had a haircut and I had a shave.
And he said, but I'm still shaved now.
The manager goes, could you describe the particular hairdresser who cut your hair and shaved you?
And he goes, well, is this young woman?
She was about so high, hair brown hair, brown eyes, fairly softly spoken.
He goes, ah, that's grace.
And once you're shaved by grace, you're always shaved.
I thank you, I'm here all week.
We are saved by grace through faith, not by works so that no one can boast.
And yet the reverse is in the Bible, aren't they?
That we can read from time to time.
We say, OK, I can accept maybe that.
Yes, it's the work of Jesus, not my works, et cetera.
But doesn't the Bible warn us in certain verses that if we misbehave maybe in a more determined and consistent fashion, maybe, just maybe, there is some nervousness that those people who do those kinds of things should experience.
One of those verses is this.
If you can have the seconds
Not that side, one after that.
Keep going.
There we go.
Here are some verses which you may have read and you may have heard that at least seeing
to argue that maybe if you're naughty just a little bit too often and too persistently, then God may cut you off.
One of those verses is this in Hebrews 10, 26.
Hebrews 10, 26.
If we deliberately keep on sinning after we have received the knowledge of the truth
no sacrifice for sins is left.
Let me read that again.
If we deliberately keep on sinning after we receive knowledge of the truth, no sacrifice for sins is left.
That, as we read it in, I guess, our Western modern sort of mindset, seems to be quite simply saying to you, if you persistently keep on doing the things that you know to be wrong,
then you kind of run out of the grace of salvation, and there is only judgment therefore awaiting you.
Now, while I believe there are maybe passages in the Bible that you could more easily get that idea from, I don't think this is one of them.
And I'm going to show you in two ways.
One from a kind of an argument of the actual text itself, and one is a more kind of
general idea about how God works.
The first point based on the text is this.
The writer of the Hebrews is not writing to generally misbehaving Christians.
I have made a case in some Bible studies previously that there may have been a woman involved, but he, let's say for argument, the writer of Hebrews is writing to a community
of previously Jewish believers who were under persecution at genuine risk of returning back to Judaism because there were greater protections in the Roman laws for Jews than they were for this emerging Christian sect.
So the backstory, the wider context of what is going on,
is that these Jewish believers were considering under persecution, maybe just fully aligning themselves back with Judaism, rather than continuing with their walk with Jesus as their Messiah.
Why does that make a difference?
It makes a difference because in Hebrews 10, as with Hebrews 9,
The writer is comparing the virtues of the new covenant we have walking with Jesus versus the previous Levitical system.
With the previous system, with the Jews, whenever they sinned, they had to go back and make another sacrifice.
You sin, you bring your sacrifice, you sin again, you bring your sacrifice, you sin again, then you have to bring your sacrifice.
You sin, sacrifice sin, sacrifice sin, sacrifice, and you kept doing that.
The writer's point is that if they go back to Judaism, there are no more sacrifices that are going to work to take away your sins.
Now Messiah has come and He's been sacrificed.
The paraphrase is this, and I'm going to share with you the amplified translation of this because it explains this in a more helpful way than maybe I will share with you.
The writer is simply saying, if you continue in sin, where else are you going to go for your sacrifices?
There are no other sacrifices left for you to use because God has brought sacrifice and offering to an end in Jesus.
You reject Him.
You reject God's sacrifice for sins.
So the writer is not saying to that first century community of people, make sure that you don't have a cheeky wink at that person around the corner that's giving you those feels.
Because if you keep on doing that, God's going to say, that's no, that's not the behavior that I accept.
That's too much.
You're off.
You're out.
The context is the writer saying there is one system that you used to live under whereby it was sin
followed by sacrifice, sin followed by sacrifice, but now sacrifices come to an end in Christ.
If you go back to the old system, where you're going to get your forgiveness from?
The only way you can be absolutely forgiven is through Jesus.
You reject Him, then there is no sacrifice for sins left.
The amplified version puts it this way.
If we go unwillfully and deliberately sitting after we receive the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice to atone for our sins.
That is no further offerings to anticipate.
There's nothing else coming.
You receive that.
Imagine if I said, everybody today who comes to this meeting, you get some food.
And they say, well, I don't like that food.
I say, well, that's the only food you're going to get.
You can come back later, and if it's all eaten, you've got nothing left to eat.
If you reject the means of provision, there is no more provision left.
There's nothing else you can go to to get your provision from.
So this isn't about being too naughty, too often, and God striking you off.
It's saying, choose what system you're going to get your forgiveness from.
You reject Jesus.
There is no other sacrifice for your sins that will work for you.
Okay, another version of this same problem is in Hebrews 6, 4 to 6.
It says this, it is impossible for those who have once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift, who were shared in the Holy Spirit, who have tasted the goodness of the work of God and the powers of the coming age, who have then fallen away to be brought back to repentance.
To their loss, they are crucifying the Son of God all over again and subjecting Him to a public
disgrace.
Another verse that seems to say that if you were to fall away from Jesus you put yourself in an impossible situation where there is no chance of you continuing to receive the benefits of salvation.
I've heard that preached.
I've heard people talk about this as if that is exactly what it's saying.
Again the amplified version which I'll read in a moment helps us with this but again
As I've argued with the other verse in Hebrews 10, this is not the point of the verse for two reasons to begin with.
First, there are lots of scriptures that talk about people falling away and coming back again, the prodigal son.
The prodigal son was somebody who went away from the father's house, repented and came back.
That's one possible.
solution to this.
The other thing is this.
It says here in the way that they structured the verse, it is not to say that the person who falls away to come back would be re-crucifying the Son of God again.
It's saying by going away they're re-crucifying him again.
Why is that important?
Here's the amplified version.
The Amplified Version of the Bible says this, and then when they're fallen away, it's impossible to bring them back to repentance.
Since again, they nail the Son of God to the cross.
So as far as they're concerned, they are treating the death of Christ as if they are not saved by it and holding him up to a public disgrace.
Another way you could paraphrase that is basically by walking away
and putting Jesus back on as to some guy who died on a cross, you're saying, I don't want anything to do with this guy.
Once you have taken that position, you are making it impossible for you to come back to him because you're living under the lie that Jesus didn't die and rise again for your sins.
So it's not having any benefit for you.
It's not that you couldn't come back and God wouldn't welcome you when you came back, but you've got the kind of mindset now
written Jesus off.
So what are you going to do now?
It's impossible for you to come back because you've come to a position that he's no good to you.
It's not saying that God wouldn't welcome you back or it's impossible for him to bring you back, but you're putting yourself in an impossible situation when you write Jesus off as your savior.
I could say more on this, but I would have to go
labor the verses than the context in the original language more, and that's not the point of this message.
The point of this message is that the reverses which might scare you, but they don't mean what maybe you've been told that they mean.
Now I'm not saying that there aren't verses in the Bible, there shouldn't get us a bit of a squeaky bum time.
And I'm not saying you can treat God, however you like, do whatever you want, think, speak, act as if nothing matters and just go, okay, it's okay, Jesus paid it all.
When I die, I'm going to go to heaven.
This is all about him, not about me.
That is also not what I'm arguing.
What I am saying to you that if somebody is genuinely born again and saved, someone genuinely recognizes that Jesus is the way, the truth and the life, they've had the spirit of God come and live within them.
If they do walk away, it's because they're choosing to reject Him, not because they've done so many naughty things that God is rejecting them.
And there's a difference to why people move away from God.
One is the choice of will and the other is to say, well, maybe God's kicking you out.
Now, God disciplines people, God corrects people.
And maybe if someone can continue to deliberately keep on sinning, you can question whether they ever really believed in God in the first place.
Pigs wallow in the mud, sheep go in the mud, but they get out.
Sometimes our habits and our actions reveal our true nature.
So I'm not arguing you can do whatever you want.
You can behave however you want.
I think God doesn't care about that because he just looks at Jesus and ignores your behavior.
What I am saying is the reverse is which would initially seem to say, well, just be careful, you might just do too much and God rejects you, but that's not what those verses are actually saying.
There are other verses to kind of assure us that Jesus has forgiveness for us if we repent.
The Lord's prayer, forgive us today our sins as we forgive those who sin against us.
The assumption is that there's something for you to confess every day.
in terms of your forgiveness.
Proverbs 28, 13, whoever conceals their sins does not prosper, but the one who confesses and renounces them finds mercy.
Matthew 18, 21 to 22, it says, then Peter came to the Lord Jesus and asked, Lord, how many times shall I forgive my brother or sister who sins against me?
Up to seven times.
And Jesus answered, I'll tell you not,
seven times, but 77 times.
Do you think God holds himself to a lower standard than he holds you to?
I don't think so.
I think there is grace for you.
There are times when we need to repent.
There are times when we need to acknowledge sin.
There are times that we need to say to God, I have failed and I've fallen short.
We cannot treat God's grace and his kindness and mercy as if it means nothing, if it's cheap,
We shouldn't ever, if we follow Jesus, deliberately keep on sinning because we just presume that God's not looking at our behavior but the works of Jesus.
Because that is disrespect.
That is a lack of care and concern for the great gift that God has given us.
But you've got to wonder if people ever were to do that on the long term, over the long term, that maybe they didn't have a real relationship
in the first place.
The reason the prodigal son came home was because he knew who he was going home to.
The prodigal son left his sin and came home because he already knew his father's identity and what it was like to live in his father's house.
So I believe the Bible supports this notion
that we are saved by grace through faith.
It's not by works, no one can boast.
You cannot do anything to achieve the forgiveness and the mercy of God except repent and believe and confess.
But if someone has done that,
You would expect a life that while it fails many, many times, it comes back to a place where it asks God for mercy to continue to flow.
If someone continues to sin and do what is wrong and never comes back to God under conviction and says, God, I'm sorry, then you have to question their conversion in the first place.
because prodigals come home to a father that they know.
Pigs swallow in the mud, but sheep, after they've been in the mud, they get out.
There is something about sin and whether someone actually ultimately repents for that sin that reveals the nature of the reality of what relationship they had and who they are.
There are verses in the Bible.
where there are warnings against this false prophet, this false teacher, this person and that person, people who once walked with the church, once confessed Christ and they seem to drift away.
But the Bible, while warning us against the possibility of the dangers of falling away, doesn't base our salvation on our performance.
So there's two things for you to take from this today.
The first is the reassurance that if you fear that there are times when you let God down and you're concerned that you have just done too much for God to continue saving you, I want to reassure you that God's mercies are new every morning.
Great is his faithfulness.
And 1 John 1 8 9, if we confess our sins, God is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
But don't treat God's grace as a license to sin because it's not.
And if that's your attitude, then have a look at your own heart
and ask yourself the question whether you've really fully understood who has saved you and what he saved you from.
But if you have known the Father and loved the Father, you've trusted in him as Lord and Savior.
And even if you make a number of mistakes, God's grace is sufficient for you.
God's grace is sufficient.
for you.
I'm going to finish with reading this verse from Romans chapter 8, all these verses from Romans chapter 8.
Paul says this to the church in Romans verse 31 of Romans chapter 8, I'll read to the end of the chapter.
What then should we say in response to this?
If God is for us, who can be against us?
He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things?
Who will bring any charge against those whom God has chosen?
It is God who justifies not your works, not your performance.
Who is he that condemns
Christ Jesus who died more than that, he was raised to life and he's at the right hand side of God also interceding for us.
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ?
Shall trouble or hardship or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword as it is written for your sake, we face death all day long.
We are considered as sheet to be slaughtered.
Knowing all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us.
For I am convinced that neither death
nor life nor angels nor demons nor the present nor the future nor any powers neither height nor depth nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.
Some try to argue that's maybe not salvation that Paul is addressing there possibly.
but it does talk about the security of God's love and the fact that we are held ultimately by Him, not by our good works.
It is God who forgives, it is God who justifies, it is the work of Christ, and it is to His glory that we are saved.
We don't, as genuine followers of Jesus, believe in cheap grace.
But neither do we live every day nervous that if we make one too many mistakes, God is going to cut us out of his family.
Because that's not how a loving father works.
Let's pray.
Yeah, fathers, we've wrestled with your word this morning as to what we think it means or it doesn't mean, Lord, or we just pray.
that as we maybe reflect on these verses after today, we wrestle with them.
And what they mean and don't mean, Lord God, I just pray that your word of your spirit will come through where people that believe in truth and sometimes scripture isn't immediately obvious as to what it means.
But Lord God, through the understanding of your spirit and through hard work and careful study, Lord God, we can find there is truth that where there was once fear, there are things to be assured about.
and comforted by.
And, Lord God, we just stand on your word today that if we confess with our mouth and believe with our hearts that Jesus is Lord, we shall be saved.
You are a good Father, a loving God, and we trust you with our eternity.
In Jesus' name, amen.
We've come to the end of this week's message.
We hope you've been impacted and inspired.
Please keep up-to-date with everything that's happening by visiting our website at www.livechurchgoingsin.com.